
#**GIMME10** (currently titled GIMME5)

#THE PITCH: 
Gimme10 is an exercise app for writers who feel like they never have the time to get a new project off the ground. The app takes advantage of small periods of down time and prompts the user to begin flexing their creative thinking skills by having them brainstorm lists of ten (five, for demo purposes) responses to various questions generated around a single word. The user can then use these responses to create vibrant and wholly original works. Eventually, I want this app to work as a sort of Writing Workshop you can fit in your pocket -- a helping hand that the user can grasp as they work their way from a glimmer of inspiration to a full-fledged first draft. Right now it's but a whisper of that vision.

#TECHNOLOGY USED
* HTML
* CSS
* JQuery
* JavaScript
* API (WordsAPI to be specific)
* Local Storage

#**APPROACH**
The app begins by having the user create a new project. When they do, the project name is added to local storage so it can be referenced when the user returns at a later time. Currently, the app only stores one project which I hardcoded as "Proj1" in the JavaScript code. In the next interation I'll create variable names for the user projects (Proj1, Proj2, etc.) and use the input value of the user generated name for the variable value.

After beginning a project, the user is taken to the next page where they are provided a random word (a noun) and its definition (generated by WordsAPI) along with a randomly generated question (from an array I wrote in JavaScript) which asks the user to personify the word in some way. The user is then required to type 5 answers to the prompt, forcing them to work through their initial, often cliched, responses and develop some fresh material. These answers are saved to local storage as the user submits them, so they can close the app at any time without having to worry if their answers will still be there when they come back.

The final stage, for now, takes the user to a new page where they are provided all their previous answers and asked to write a character description inspired by them. This description is saved to local storage upon hitting submit, and can be returned to later if the user needs to take a break in the middle of working on their character.

#**UNSOLVED PROBLEMS**

One current problem is the quality of the words that the API generates. I chose this API because it is capable of allowing random word generation AND has a great filtering capability so I could filter by parts of speech. I only wanted nouns because they are capable of prompting more visual imagery in the writing. However, the API generates a LOT of pronouns as well as some truly archaic words. I fear this will turn many users away. I began looking for a better source and came across a great library called Sentencer. I thought I would use that to generate words and  pass them through the API to get definitions and synonyms/antonyms to include alongside it. Sentencer seems to only want to work from a server though, so I was unable to use it in the app. Maybe once I learn more about back-end development I'll be able to implement that feature.

Another problem was local storage. I got it storing information easily enough, but it was like pulling teeth to get that information back. I discovered (eventually) that once I opened a new page, the browser had no interest in following through on my request to display the stored information on the page. So I had to get creative. Instead of having a site with multiple pages, I made a site with one page (and an exit page) that shows and hides the different screens as the user clicks through. This is not ideal. I think I could've avoided this situation had I created a variable that pulled the information from local storage before switching pages and then delivered that information back to the user once the new page was loaded. But, you know ... hindsight. In the future I could probably store the information somewhere other than local storage and I won't have that problem.

That's it as far as the big problems. The styling needs to be entirely re-thought. Thematically I was trying to create a "workout" vibe for the app -- using "reps" and "sets" to refer to answers and questions. But visually it reads more like a Mother's Day card than it does a workout journal. I also wanted to create a feature where it "shouts" out encouragement as the user nears the end of each set -- something like "three more reps" or "almost there, power through". But I ran out of time. After seeing how the styling turned out, I think it would've just confused matters anyway.

#**PROJECT LINK**

https://cox512.github.io/portfolio/gimme5/index.html